#summary Getting started
#sidebar Sidebar

= Omegalib Downloads =
This page offers extended information on how to develop applications for omegalib.

== Omegalib Binaries ==
Currently, precompiled versions of omegalib are available for windows only. You can compile your own version of omegalib on linux or osx (no python support at the moment, sorry) following the instructions further down on this page.

=== Major releases ===
For each major release you can read release notes in the [ReleaseNotes] page.
The current developer version is the most up to date, but the binaries may NOT contain all the features listed in the release notes page (some of them may still be on the source repository only).
	* (*Current Developer Version*) Omegalib 4.0 *binaries not available yet*
	* Omegalib 3.7 [https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/shz/3j65w5bek4mplne/Nvl5q4zsBw/win32-v3.7?token_hash=AAFyZTVXHy1D0bw5VoPXKsX65iWBlgneP7eGMx5QG16S7w&top_level_offset=9 [Download Zip]]
	* Omegalib 3.6 [https://dl.dropbox.com/shz/lzjxsc64t9cg4rg/dhW0vn5dGS/win32-v3.6?token_hash=AAHNPT_9Ya0jZ0IrKjIqEWW3tdwwkVet7DUpnIhkJPA4Vg&top_level_offset=9 [Download Zip]]
	* Omegalib 3.5 [https://dl.dropbox.com/shz/gnlmx1vnxebttx0/oq-e0PIRF4/win32-v3.5?token_hash=AAHToo7m1iCtO5NQmQhF8_J8mkD3iAFHILYrBfhpCSAMSg&top_level_offset=9 [Download Zip]]
	* Omegalib 3.4 [https://omegalib.googlecode.com/files/omegalib-3.4-win32.zip [Download Zip]]

=== Additional precompiled libraries ===
==== osgEarth ====
Download this binary package to open .earth files in omegalib. The binary package is offered for Windows only. On other platforms, manually download and build GDAL and osgEarth.
	* osgEarth + GDAL (Windows 32bit) [https://dl.dropbox.com/shz/tkp9j5rmb7f0pvu/ntz_6dW2C4/osgEarth-win32?token_hash=AAGQ6Ez1UOs5FrImDm7E7XtgZN0r2tP1JyMSvBqxnQwgbQ&top_level_offset=9 [Download Zip]]
