#summary Getting started
#sidebar Sidebar

= Getting started with omegalb Developement =
This page offers basic information on how to develop applications for omegalib.

== Building omegalib ==
omegalib currently ships as a source-only toolkit. Users and developers can easily build an omegalib binary distribution using the CMake build system. For more information on how to build omegalib go to [this page].

== Configuring hardware systems ==
Omeglib applications use configuration files to learn about the the hardware they run on. Configuration files describe the capabilities and geometry of the display system, supported input devices, and network configurations for clustered systems. The omegalib distribution contains several configration files to test applications out of the box (i.e. to run them windowed on a standard PC). Programmers and system administrators can learn about configuration files to customize omegalib applications for other display and input systems.

[TODO: ref to configuration page]

== Developing omegalib applications ==
omegalib is designed to support a variety of grapical toolkits for application developement. Programmers can write applications using OpenGL, OpenSceneGraph, vtk or the internal cyclops framework. Several exaple applications are incuded with the omegalib source distribution. The following pages offer additional information on how to create applications for omegalib.

[ref to OpenGL programming page]
[ref to osg programming page]
[ref to vtk programming page]
[ref to cyclops programming page]

[ref to omegalib API]
