=OmegaLib Meeting Notes=

==March 16 2011==
 * Fix display position on omegadesk
 * Fix head orientation using center screen orientation + possibly kinect head tilt?
 * What's the 'interaction metaphor' with omegadesk?
  * Describe 'interaction models' maybe even more than one, describing how applications would use the device.
 * finalize the set of input modalities that we hink are sufficient to give the best user experience.
 * what kind of aplication are we trying to test?
  * meshviewer / vtk viewer
  * Pig project slice alignment tool
  * Using both displays as stereo displays vs using just the top one.
 * Objective for May
  * stabilize canonical set of features of omegadesk.
  * finalize meshviewer to a polished application.
 * fix oinputserver
 * Take a look at conferences where we can publish papers on omegadesk


==March 9 2011==
 * (*Dennis*) line by line demo likely to run by 16th demos
 * Things needed for demo
  * Kinect working & calibrated
  * maybe having a texture giving back depth / camera image
  * multiple user support?
 * What gesture / info are we using to select the active, tracked user
  * Raising hard?
  * closest user?
  * tracked controller / object, who has is is the tracked user.
 * With kinect and pqlab now we can have touch ownership.
 * (*Khairi*) may be using omegalib + pqlabs on mac
 * (*Arthur*) find mac PqLabs drivers for mac.



==February 9 2011==
 * (*Victor*) still working on Kinect integration. Should be ready in a couple weeks
 * (*Arthur*) working on xbox360 & ps3 controller integration
  * Agreed on using input event as a representation of the entire state of the controller (similar to what is done for mouse)
 * (*Alessandro*) meshviewer app: started integration with omegadesk inputs & working on UI lib


==January 19 2011==
 * (*Alessandro*) added a bunch of utility classes for math & geometry to omegalib
 * (*Alessandro*) working on meshviewer application
 * (*Victor*) integrating kinect into omegalib
 * (*Arthur*) start thinking on how to integrate controller support into omegalib
 * Other issues / questions:
  * Having multiple thread render 2d / 3d portions of the screen to keep speed of 2d and 3d parts separate
  * Do we need optitrack for controller tracking or can we use kinect for everything?
  * Do kinect and optitrack interfere?
  * Are we able to render full res active stereo on the omegadesk machine? (Looks like we can't with the current video card)


==November 10 2010==
 * Alessandro: Compile without Equalizer support, needed in about a week.
 * Brad needs to compile omegalib inside linux, hopefully be solved by disabling equalizer  support and compiling a dependency free version of the lib.
 * Brad: put updated version of mocap config in repository
 * Brad & Arthur: think about porting their unity animation app (awesome ants) to omegadesk as a demo app using multitouch + 3d.
 * Khairi mentioned using omegalib in future version of raintable for multitouch (they may be using PQLab overlays)
 * Brad: need to have 2 tracked hands.

==October 6 2010==
 * Arthur: Omegalib NetService & oinputserver working
 * Alessandro: tested vtk demo on new omegadesk. Still have to get active stereo working (Equalizer problem?)
 * Next week: merging 0.2 and 0.3
 * Test app: build a simple obj mesh viewer